README.md, before:

# BagaJob - The Definitive Job Hunting Management App
## Back-end Architecture - Laravel

### Collaborating:

**Never commit directly to the master branch. Create a new feature branch from the development branch, and make a pull request for a team-mate to review and merge.**

### Getting Started:

The Vagrant Box set up to use Laravel's Homestead image. To get started:

1. Clone this repo and `cd` into folder
1. In your new directory, run `composer install`
1. Run `vendor/bin/homestead make`
1. Copy the `.env.example` file to a new `.env` file:
`cp .env.example .env`

1. Update password your `.env` file
1. Run `vagrant up`
1. Login to the virtual machine: `vagrant ssh`
1. Navigate to new `code` folder: `cd code`
1. Run the database migrations: `artisan migrate`
1. Seed the database with example data: `artisan db:seed`

Visit `http://homestead.test` on Mac or `http://localhost:8000` on Windows:

![Default view on Start](https://imgur.com/qdBTCLp.jpg?)


### Troubleshooting:

#### Q: When I visit `http://homestead.test` on Mac or `http://localhost:8000` on Windows, I get an Error 500: Internal Server Error
A:

Reload the vagrant box and provision it:

`vagrant reload --provision`

Generate a new app key:

`php artisan key:generate`

#### Q: When I run `vagrant up`, I get the following error:
```
Vagrant was unable to mount VirtualBox shared folders. This is usually
because the filesystem "vboxsf" is not available. This filesystem is
made available via the VirtualBox Guest Additions and kernel module.
Please verify that these guest additions are properly installed in the
guest. This is not a bug in Vagrant and is usually caused by a faulty
Vagrant box. For context, the command attempted was:

mount -t vboxsf -o dmode=777,fmode=666,uid=1000,gid=1000 var_www /var/www

The error output from the command was:

: No such device
```
A:

First, install the `vagrant-vbguest` plugin:

`vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest`


Next, initialise the plugin:

`vagrant vbguest`

---

# Bagajob API

## General

All requests should:

- Use the basename `https://homestead.test/api/`
- Be sent using JSON and with the `Accept: application/json` header.

## End points:
### Register User - POST `/api/register`

#### Request
```json
{
    "name": "<user name>", // REQ, full name
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid email, not the same as another in the database
    "password": "<password>" // REQ, password
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{  
    "success": {
        "token": "<token>"
    },
    "user": {
        "id": "<ID>",
        "name": "<user name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-01 14:22:46"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Missing name
- Missing email
- Missing password
- Duplicate User (email must be unqiue)

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "name": [
            "A name is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "email": [
            "A email is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "password": [
            "A password is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "email": [
            "A user account exists already with this email"
        ],
    }
}
```

### Login User - POST `/api/login`

#### Request
- ***NOTE: `username` maps to `email` in this case***
```json
{
    "username": "<user email>", // REQ, valid user email
    "password": "<password>" // REQ, password
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "token_type": "Bearer",
    "expires_in": 31536000,
    "access_token": "<token>",
    "refresh_token": "<token>",
    "user": {
        "id": 20,
        "name": "<user name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-01 14:22:46"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Missing username/password

```json
{
    "error": "invalid_request",
    "error_description": "The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once, or is otherwise malformed.",
    "hint": "Check the `< missing >` parameter",
    "message": "<same as error_description>"
}
```
- Invalid username/password

```json
{
    "error": "invalid_grant",
    "error_description": "The provided authorization grant (e.g., authorization code, resource owner credentials) or refresh token is invalid, expired, revoked, does not match the redirection URI used in the authorization request, or was issued to another client.",
    "hint": "",
    "message": "<same as error_description>"
}
```

### Not Logged In/Unauthenticated
- If the frontend tries to make a request to any of the non-authentication workflow related routes without the proper Bearer Token, they will receive this response:
```json
{
    "message": "Unauthenticated."
}
```

### Forgot Password / Password Reset Routes

### `POST /api/reset-password-without-token`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid user email
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "message": "Reset Password email successfully sent"
}
```

##### Failure
- No email supplied/invalid email format

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "An email is required to reset the password" // "A valid email must be used to reset the password"
        ]
    }
}
```

- User does not exist with that email

```json
{
    "message": "An account does not exist with this email address"
}
```

- Email failed
```json
{
    "message": "An error has occured sending the reset password email, please try again",
    "error": "<error message>"
}


```
### `POST /api/reset-password-with-token`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid user email
    "password": "<new password>", // REQ, new password
    "token": "<reset token>", // REQ, valid reset token from email
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "message": "Password Reset Successful",
    "user": {
        "id": 21,
        "name": "<name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-03 11:16:06"
    },
    "token": "<bearer token>"
}
```

##### Failure
- Similar email, password, token validation as before (required)
- Invalid token, or they've already reset their password
```json
{
    "message": "Password token invalid, please submit a new password reset request"
}
```

### Update User Account - PATCH `/api/user/{user id}`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // OPT, valid user email, not duplicate
    "name": "<user name>" // OPT, string
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
- Returns the user object
```json
{
    "user": {
        "id": 23,
        "name": "NickelNood",
        "email": "nosvalds@gmail.com",
        "created_at": "2020-09-04 14:15:57"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Trying to update a different user than you are logged in as
```json
{
    "message": "You cannot edit a user other than your own"
}
```

- Trying to update to a Duplicate email in the database

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "A user account exists already with this email"
        ]
    }
}
```

- Incorrect format(s) name or email
```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "The email must be a valid email address."
        ]
    }
}
```

### DELETE User Account - DELETE `/api/user/{user id}`

#### Responses

##### Success
- Returns a 204 - No Content response

##### Failures
- Trying to delete a user other than your own
```json
{
    "message": "You cannot delete a user other than your own"
}
```
- Trying to delete a user that does not exist
```json
{
    "message": "No query results for model [App\\User] <ID>"
}
```



### Jobs - `/api/jobs`

#### `GET /api/jobs`

Returns all jobs as JSON object:

```json
{
        "id": 2,
        "job_title": "Compacting Machine Operator",
        "company": "McLaughlin, Johnston and Koepp",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "East Kaceybury",
        "salary": "20444.00",
        "closing_date": "2020-09-05 10:02:52",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Sunt ratione velit cumque ipsam nihil soluta. Ut asperiores ab excepturi laboriosam porro. Error voluptatibus beatae non. Et sunt omnis sed velit. Quia qui corrupti autem facilis.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
    {
        "id": 3,
        "job_title": "Power Distributors OR Dispatcher",
        "company": "Kuphal-Wunsch",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "Larissachester",
        "salary": "59962.00",
        "closing_date": "2020-12-08 13:56:00",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Numquam dolor voluptas quia et temporibus aut facilis. Quam assumenda in cum ducimus enim. Sit sapiente et magni et blanditiis. Accusantium est porro voluptatibus velit nostrum. Laborum quas optio quod pariatur.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
```

**Does not return interviews, notes or users associated with those jobs.**

#### `GET /jobs/:id`

Returns an individual job as JSON object where `:id` is a job ID

```json
{
        "id": 17,
        "job_title": "Electrotyper",
        "company": "Satterfield-Dach",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "Archland",
        "salary": "30601.00",
        "closing_date": "2021-01-20 07:00:04",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Nihil illum quam id et natus deserunt. Et eius porro ex. Deleniti nulla libero doloribus et laudantium eius. Quos voluptatem maxime soluta. Repellendus voluptatem neque est facere facere atque.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
```

#### `POST /api/jobs`

Adds a job to the database. The below is the minimum required JSON, all other fields optional.
```json
{
    "job_title" : "Senior Java Developer",
    "company" : "Green Software Inc.",
    "stage" : 1,
    "active": 1
}
```
---

## Laravel

## Documentation

Laravel has the most extensive and thorough [documentation](https://laravel.com/docs) and video tutorial library of all modern web application frameworks, making it a breeze to get started with the framework.

- [Simple, fast routing engine](https://laravel.com/docs/routing).
- [Powerful dependency injection container](https://laravel.com/docs/container).
- Multiple back-ends for [session](https://laravel.com/docs/session) and [cache](https://laravel.com/docs/cache) storage.
- Expressive, intuitive [database ORM](https://laravel.com/docs/eloquent).
- Database agnostic [schema migrations](https://laravel.com/docs/migrations).
- [Robust background job processing](https://laravel.com/docs/queues).
- [Real-time event broadcasting](https://laravel.com/docs/broadcasting).

Laravel is accessible, powerful, and provides tools required for large, robust applications.

---

## Scotch Box

## Documentation

* Check out the official docs at: [box.scotch.io](https://box.scotch.io)
* [Read the getting started article](https://scotch.io/bar-talk/introducing-scotch-box-a-vagrant-lamp-stack-that-just-works)
* [Read the 3.5 release article](https://scotch.io/bar-talk/announcing-scotch-box-v35-and-scotch-box-pro-v15-the-big-switcheroo)

Commit message:

swap out to bagajob email service, update documentation

README.md, after:

# BagaJob - The Definitive Job Hunting Management App
## Back-end Architecture - Laravel

### Collaborating:

**Never commit directly to the master branch. Create a new feature branch from the development branch, and make a pull request for a team-mate to review and merge.**

### Getting Started:

The Vagrant Box set up to use Laravel's Homestead image. To get started:

1. Clone this repo and `cd` into the new directory
1. In your new directory, run `composer install`
1. Run `vendor/bin/homestead make`
1. Copy the `.env.example` file to a new `.env` file:
`cp .env.example .env`

1. Update passwords in your `.env` file
    - If you need email, set these api keys as well, they can be accessed from the [bagajob mailjet account](https://app.mailjet.com/account/api_keys)
        - MAILJET_APIKEY= *****
        - MAILJET_APISECRET= *****
1. Run `vagrant up`
1. ssh to the virtual machine: `vagrant ssh`
1. Navigate to new `code` folder: `cd code`
1. Run the database migrations: `artisan migrate`
1. Seed the database with example data: `artisan db:seed`

Visit `http://homestead.test` on Mac or `http://localhost:8000` on Windows:

![Default view on Start](https://imgur.com/qdBTCLp.jpg?)


### Troubleshooting:

### Q: When I run `composer install` I get a memory error
A: 

First, make sure you're only running this on your local machine and NOT the Vagrant box.

Second, run this command to increase your memory limit, you can use -1 to make it unlimited if neccessary.
`php -d memory_limit=-1 $(which composer) update`

Also see this page:
https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/troubleshooting.md#memory-limit-errors

#### Q: When I visit `http://homestead.test` on Mac or `http://localhost:8000` on Windows, I get an Error 500: Internal Server Error
A:

Reload the vagrant box and provision it:

`vagrant reload --provision`

Generate a new app key:

`php artisan key:generate`

#### Q: When I run `vagrant up`, I get the following error:
```
Vagrant was unable to mount VirtualBox shared folders. This is usually
because the filesystem "vboxsf" is not available. This filesystem is
made available via the VirtualBox Guest Additions and kernel module.
Please verify that these guest additions are properly installed in the
guest. This is not a bug in Vagrant and is usually caused by a faulty
Vagrant box. For context, the command attempted was:

mount -t vboxsf -o dmode=777,fmode=666,uid=1000,gid=1000 var_www /var/www

The error output from the command was:

: No such device
```
A:

First, install the `vagrant-vbguest` plugin:

`vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest`


Next, initialise the plugin:

`vagrant vbguest`

---

# Bagajob API

## General

All requests should:

- Use the basename `https://homestead.test/api/`
- Be sent using JSON and with the `Accept: application/json` header.

## End points:
### Register User - POST `/api/register`

#### Request
```json
{
    "name": "<user name>", // REQ, full name
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid email, not the same as another in the database
    "password": "<password>" // REQ, password
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{  
    "success": {
        "token": "<token>"
    },
    "user": {
        "id": "<ID>",
        "name": "<user name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-01 14:22:46"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Missing name
- Missing email
- Missing password
- Duplicate User (email must be unqiue)

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "name": [
            "A name is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "email": [
            "A email is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "password": [
            "A password is required to create a user account"
        ],
        "email": [
            "A user account exists already with this email"
        ],
    }
}
```

### Login User - POST `/api/login`

#### Request
- ***NOTE: `username` maps to `email` in this case***
```json
{
    "username": "<user email>", // REQ, valid user email
    "password": "<password>" // REQ, password
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "token_type": "Bearer",
    "expires_in": 31536000,
    "access_token": "<token>",
    "refresh_token": "<token>",
    "user": {
        "id": 20,
        "name": "<user name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-01 14:22:46"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Missing username/password

```json
{
    "error": "invalid_request",
    "error_description": "The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once, or is otherwise malformed.",
    "hint": "Check the `< missing >` parameter",
    "message": "<same as error_description>"
}
```
- Invalid username/password

```json
{
    "error": "invalid_grant",
    "error_description": "The provided authorization grant (e.g., authorization code, resource owner credentials) or refresh token is invalid, expired, revoked, does not match the redirection URI used in the authorization request, or was issued to another client.",
    "hint": "",
    "message": "<same as error_description>"
}
```

### Not Logged In/Unauthenticated
- If the frontend tries to make a request to any of the non-authentication workflow related routes without the proper Bearer Token, they will receive this response:
```json
{
    "message": "Unauthenticated."
}
```

### Forgot Password / Password Reset Routes

### `POST /api/reset-password-without-token`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid user email
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "message": "Reset Password email successfully sent"
}
```

##### Failure
- No email supplied/invalid email format

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "An email is required to reset the password" // "A valid email must be used to reset the password"
        ]
    }
}
```

- User does not exist with that email

```json
{
    "message": "An account does not exist with this email address"
}
```

- Email failed
```json
{
    "message": "An error has occured sending the reset password email, please try again",
    "error": "<error message>"
}


```
### `POST /api/reset-password-with-token`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // REQ, valid user email
    "password": "<new password>", // REQ, new password
    "token": "<reset token>", // REQ, valid reset token from email
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
```json
{
    "message": "Password Reset Successful",
    "user": {
        "id": 21,
        "name": "<name>",
        "email": "<email>",
        "created_at": "2020-09-03 11:16:06"
    },
    "token": "<bearer token>"
}
```

##### Failure
- Similar email, password, token validation as before (required)
- Invalid token, or they've already reset their password
```json
{
    "message": "Password token invalid, please submit a new password reset request"
}
```

### Update User Account - PATCH `/api/user/{user id}`

#### Request
```json
{
    "email": "<email>", // OPT, valid user email, not duplicate
    "name": "<user name>" // OPT, string
}
```

#### Responses

##### Success
- Returns the user object
```json
{
    "user": {
        "id": 23,
        "name": "<name>",
        "email": "nosvalds@gmail.com",
        "created_at": "2020-09-04 14:15:57"
    }
}
```

##### Failures
- Trying to update a different user than you are logged in as
```json
{
    "message": "You cannot edit a user other than your own"
}
```

- Trying to update to a Duplicate email in the database

```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "A user account exists already with this email"
        ]
    }
}
```

- Incorrect format(s) name or email
```json
{
    "message": "The given data was invalid.",
    "errors": {
        "email": [
            "The email must be a valid email address."
        ]
    }
}
```

### DELETE User Account - DELETE `/api/user/{user id}`

#### Responses

##### Success
- Returns a 204 - No Content response

##### Failures
- Trying to delete a user other than your own
```json
{
    "message": "You cannot delete a user other than your own"
}
```
- Trying to delete a user that does not exist
```json
{
    "message": "No query results for model [App\\User] <ID>"
}
```



### Jobs - `/api/jobs`

#### `GET /api/jobs`

Returns all jobs as JSON object:

```json
{
        "id": 2,
        "job_title": "Compacting Machine Operator",
        "company": "McLaughlin, Johnston and Koepp",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "East Kaceybury",
        "salary": "20444.00",
        "closing_date": "2020-09-05 10:02:52",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Sunt ratione velit cumque ipsam nihil soluta. Ut asperiores ab excepturi laboriosam porro. Error voluptatibus beatae non. Et sunt omnis sed velit. Quia qui corrupti autem facilis.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
    {
        "id": 3,
        "job_title": "Power Distributors OR Dispatcher",
        "company": "Kuphal-Wunsch",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "Larissachester",
        "salary": "59962.00",
        "closing_date": "2020-12-08 13:56:00",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Numquam dolor voluptas quia et temporibus aut facilis. Quam assumenda in cum ducimus enim. Sit sapiente et magni et blanditiis. Accusantium est porro voluptatibus velit nostrum. Laborum quas optio quod pariatur.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
```

**Does not return interviews, notes or users associated with those jobs.**

#### `GET /jobs/:id`

Returns an individual job as JSON object where `:id` is a job ID

```json
{
        "id": 17,
        "job_title": "Electrotyper",
        "company": "Satterfield-Dach",
        "active": 1,
        "location": "Archland",
        "salary": "30601.00",
        "closing_date": "2021-01-20 07:00:04",
        "application_date": null,
        "description": "Nihil illum quam id et natus deserunt. Et eius porro ex. Deleniti nulla libero doloribus et laudantium eius. Quos voluptatem maxime soluta. Repellendus voluptatem neque est facere facere atque.",
        "recruiter_name": null,
        "recruiter_email": null,
        "recruiter_phone": null,
        "stage": "1",
        "created_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-08-27T13:17:46.000000Z"
    },
```

#### `POST /api/jobs`

Adds a job to the database. The below is the minimum required JSON, all other fields optional.
```json
{
    "job_title" : "Senior Java Developer",
    "company" : "Green Software Inc.",
    "stage" : 1,
    "active": 1
}
```
---

## Laravel

## Documentation

Laravel has the most extensive and thorough [documentation](https://laravel.com/docs) and video tutorial library of all modern web application frameworks, making it a breeze to get started with the framework.

- [Simple, fast routing engine](https://laravel.com/docs/routing).
- [Powerful dependency injection container](https://laravel.com/docs/container).
- Multiple back-ends for [session](https://laravel.com/docs/session) and [cache](https://laravel.com/docs/cache) storage.
- Expressive, intuitive [database ORM](https://laravel.com/docs/eloquent).
- Database agnostic [schema migrations](https://laravel.com/docs/migrations).
- [Robust background job processing](https://laravel.com/docs/queues).
- [Real-time event broadcasting](https://laravel.com/docs/broadcasting).

Laravel is accessible, powerful, and provides tools required for large, robust applications.

---

## Scotch Box

## Documentation

* Check out the official docs at: [box.scotch.io](https://box.scotch.io)
* [Read the getting started article](https://scotch.io/bar-talk/introducing-scotch-box-a-vagrant-lamp-stack-that-just-works)
* [Read the 3.5 release article](https://scotch.io/bar-talk/announcing-scotch-box-v35-and-scotch-box-pro-v15-the-big-switcheroo)
